TITLE: Ingenuity
SOURCE_URL: https://science.nasa.gov/mission/mars-2020-perseverance/ingenuity-mars-helicopter/

Explore This Section
Ingenuity Mars Helicopter
NASA's Ingenuity Mars Helicopter completed 72 historic flights since first taking to the skies above the Red Planet.
Type
Helicopter
First flight/last flight
April 19, 2021/Jan. 18, 2024
Destination
Jezero Crater, Mars
Objective
Demonstrate the first powered flight on Mars
first in flight
5 Years Since Ingenuity's 'Wright Brothers Moment'
After riding to Mars strapped beneath the Perseverance rover, the Ingenuity helicopter took to the Martian air for its initial flight on April 19, 2021— the first powered flight on another planet.
Learn the Story Behind Ingenuity
Mars Helicopter Ingenuity on Mars.
Featured Video
The Legacy of Ingenuity
On April 19, 2021, NASA's Ingenuity Mars Helicopter made history when it completed the first powered, controlled flight on the Red Planet. It flew for the last time on Jan. 18, 2024.
Designed to be a technology demonstration that would make no more than five test flights in 30 days, the helicopter eventually completed 72 flights across nearly three years, soaring higher and faster than previously imagined. Ingenuity embarked on a new mission as an operations demonstration, serving as an aerial scout for scientists and rover planners, and for engineers ready to learn more about Perseverance’s landing-gear debris.
In its final phase, the helicopter entered a new engineering demonstration phase where it executed experimental flight tests that further expanded the team’s knowledge of the vehicle’s aerodynamic limits.
Key Facts
Launch
July 30, 2020, Cape Canaveral Air Force Station, Florida
Landed
Feb. 18, 2021, Jezero Crater, Mars
Length of mission
Technology demonstration completed; transitioned to new
operations demo
phase.
Mission completed
on Jan. 25, 2024.
Ingenuity Timeline
April 3, 2021
Four Feet on Mars
Read More
April 4, 2021
Surviving the First Night
Read More
April 8, 2021
First Rotor Spin Tests
Read More
April 19, 2021
First Flight
Read More
April 25, 2021
First Photo of Rover
Read More
May 7, 2021
Tech Demo Complete
Read More
July 5, 2021
Venturing to New Territory
Read More
July 24, 2021
First Scouting Flight
Read More
August 4, 2021
Another Rover Sighting
Read More
April 8, 2022
Setting the Distance Record
Read More
April 19, 2022
Sighting Rover's Landing Hardware
Read More
April 13, 2023
50 Flights and Beyond
Read More
October 5, 2023
Setting the Altitude Record
Read More
October 12, 2023
Setting the Groundspeed Record
Read More
January 25, 2024
NASA's Ingenuity Helicopter Mission Ends
Read More
5 Things to Know
1.
The first aircraft to achieve powered, controlled flight on another planet, a feat that's been called a "Wright Brothers moment."
2.
Completed 128.8 flying minutes, covering 10.5 miles (17.0 kilometers), and reaching altitudes as high as 78.7 feet (24.0 meters).
3.
Successfully flying in the extremely thin Martian atmosphere.
4.
Previewing areas of Mars of possible interest for the Perseverance rover to explore.
5.
Paved the way for future aerial explorers at Mars and, potentially, other space destinations.
NASA’s Ingenuity Mars Helicopter extends vertically into place after being rotated outward from its horizontal position on the belly of the Perseverance rover on March 29, 2021. This image was taken by the WATSON (Wide Angle Topographic Sensor for Operations and eNgineering) camera on the SHERLOC (Scanning Habitable Environments with Raman and Luminescence for Organics and Chemicals) instrument, located at the end of the rover’s long robotic arm.
NASA/JPL-Caltech/MSSS
Meet Ingenuity
Tech Specs
Unable to render the provided source
Interactive 3D model of the Mars Ingenuity Helicopter. This model can also be viewed in augmented reality on mobile devices using NASA's Spacecraft AR app.
Mass
3.97 pounds (1.8 kilograms)
Weight
4 pounds on Earth (1.81 kilograms on Mars); 1.5 pounds on Mars (.68 kilograms)
Width
Total length of rotors: Approximately 4 feet (approximately 1.2 meters) tip to tip
Power
Solar panel charges Lithium-ion batteries, providing enough energy for one 90-second flight per Martian day ( approximately 350 Watts of average power during flight)
Blade span
Just under 4 feet (1.2 meters)
Flight range
Up to 980 feet (300 meters)
Flight altitude
Up to 15 feet (5 meters)
Flight environment
Thin atmosphere, less than 1 percent as dense as Earth's
NASA’s Ingenuity Mars Helicopter extends vertically into place after being rotated outward from its horizontal position on the belly of the Perseverance rover on March 29, 2021. This image was taken by the WATSON (Wide Angle Topographic Sensor for Operations and eNgineering) camera on the SHERLOC (Scanning Habitable Environments with Raman and Luminescence for Organics and Chemicals) instrument, located at the end of the rover’s long robotic arm.
NASA/JPL-Caltech/MSSS
Ingenuity's Travel Diary
Take a flight down memory lane to read the archived chronology of mission updates provided by the Mars Helicopter team.
Read the ‘Mars Helicopter Updates’
about Ingenuity's Travel Diary
NASA’s Ingenuity Mars Helicopter navigation camera depicts the last 29 seconds of the rotorcraft’s sixth flight.
NASA/JPL-Caltech
Recap of Ingenuity's 72 flights, including duration, distance, speed, and altitude.
Ingenuity's Flight Log Details
Jun 21, 2024
PDF (535.42 KB)
the next generation
NASA’s SkyFall Mars Helicopters
NASA’s SkyFall mission will build on the success of the Ingenuity Mars helicopter, which achieved the first powered, controlled flight on another planet. Using a daring mid-air deployment, SkyFall will deliver a team of next-gen Mars helicopters to scout human landing sites and map subsurface water ice. The mission was announced as part of the agency’s “Ignition” event on Tuesday, March 24.
Learn More About SkyFall
Featured Story
NASA Pushes Next-Gen Mars Helicopter Rotor Blades Past Mach 1
The rotor blades that will carry NASA’s next-generation helicopters to new Martian heights broke the sound barrier during March tests…
Read the Story
Ingenuity Posters
Download high-resolution posters to celebrate Ingenuity's accomplishments.
Ingenuity 72 Pathbreaking Flights
Ingenuity flew for the last time on January 18, 2024, and completed its mission on January 25, 2024, after nearly three years of aerial exploration and 72 historic flights.
Download Poster
Ingenuity Mars Helicopter Poster
Celebrate the accomplishments of NASA’s Ingenuity Mars Helicopter with a vertical or horizontal poster illustration depicting the first helicopter on the Red Planet.
Download Poster
Ingenuity Mars Helicopter By the Numbers
In the more than two years since landing, the helicopter has greatly exceeded its planned lifespan and evolved from a test of the first powered, controlled flight on another world to working to support other goals.
Download Infographic
Multimedia
Ingenuity Resources
From its first days on the Martian surface through its 72 historic flights, view images and videos of the helicopter's journey on Mars.
Browse Ingenuity-Related Resources
Perseverance Rover Stories
Explore All Perseverance Rover Stories
Article
2 Min Read
Perseverance Captures Another Phobos Transit
Blog
6 Min Read
NASA Tests Featherweight Radar Antenna for SkyFall Mars Helicopters
2 Min Read
NASA’s Perseverance Captures Phobos and Earth
Article
3 Min Read
NASA’s Perseverance Rover Watches Earth Vanish Behind Martian Moon
Article
5 Min Read
Establishing Crew Exposure Limits of Martian Dust
Article
Keep Exploring
Discover More Topics From NASA
Mars 2020: Perseverance Rover
NASA’s Mars Perseverance rover seeks signs of ancient life and collects samples of rock and regolith for possible Earth return.
Perseverance Rover Location Map
NASA’s Perseverance rover landed in Jezero Crater, an area with an ancient delta, on Feb. 18, 2021. Scroll and pan…
Mars Helicopter Updates
Mars Exploration: Science Goals
The key to understanding the past, present or future potential for life on Mars can be found in NASA’s four…